Hi there, welcome to
this video where we
are going to learn
about misinformation.
The goal of the
presentation is to
help you to
understand what
misinformation is,
what motivates people
to do it, and how to
recognise it. In the
video, firstly, we
will look at what
misinformation is,
then we will look at
some examples of
misinformation and
why it spreads so
easily. What is
misinformation?
Misinformation is
false or inaccurate
information that is
spread, regardless of
whether there's an
intent to deceive.
It's essentially
information that
isn't true, but the
person sharing it may
genuinely believe it
or may not realise
it's false. This
distinguishes
misinformation from
disinformation, which
is false information
that's deliberately
created and spread to
mislead people. With
disinformation,
there's intentional
deception involved.
Some common examples
of misinformation
include outdated
facts that were once
true but are no
longer accurate,
misremembered details
that get passed along
, misleading
statistics taken out
of context, fake news
stories shared
without checking if
they are true, images
or videos shared as
authentic but which
have been changed.
Misinformation can
spread rapidly,
especially on social
media, because people
often share content
without checking its
accuracy. It can be
about any topic,
health, politics,
science, current
events, and can have
real-world
consequences when
people make decisions
based on false
information. The
challenge with
misinformation is
that it's not always
easy to identify, and
correcting it can be
difficult once it's
widely circulated.
People tend to
remember the initial
false claim even
after seeing a
correction.